# 2020.06.08 - Bioreactor meeting with Univalle

## People

Julien, Janeth, Camilo, Luc, Océane

## General

- We all agreed that the bioreactor should be as easy as it can. We want to have a final product in three years, so it won't have dozens of functionalities. The bioreactor should:
    - Have heating and heating control (PID)
    - Be able to monitor the liquid level
    - Have pumps that allow to transfer liquid from one bioreactor to the other
    - Allow pH measurements / monitoring! -> new feature that would give great value to the product, currently implemented by Camilo
    - Work in a standalone mode (maybe with a battery) for around two weeks (this is the memory limit when logging every 10 seconds)
- We should all build prototypes that we would keep working at home for a long time (at least a month) to see the issues that will appear

## Issues with current design

- Bio-film obstructing the peristaltic pumps tubes (clogging) -> could we find pumps with bigger tubing?
- Turbidity measurements inside of bioreactor and in another instrument are not consistent.
- The heating-plate / container contact is not good enough -> plus the magnetic stirrer is not .sufficient to get a homogenous temperature -> could we make a sort of bain-marie?
- Current connection to power heating plate is not reliable enough (copper wires) -> replace it by a cable with a connector.
- Currently existing documentation is not good enough for inexperienced students to build reliable bioreactors.

## To do in Switzerland

Checkout corresponding [issues](https://github.com/Hackuarium/bioreactor/issues).

- build two or three bioreactors prototypes for long-run tests
    - order magnets
    - find a way to 3D print parts efficiently
    - see how to build cases
- test the bioreactor I2C communication with slaves (-> for the pH meter)
- find what connector to use to connect with I2C slaves
- do start/stop tests imitating a crash to verify that the logging system is working properly
- try to write nice pedagogic doc on how to build the bioreactors, how to contribute and how to use the GUI
    - make explanatory videos in english that will be subtitled in spanish!
- check out the turbidity problem